---
layout: post
title: Thinking in Vim | Living in the Command Line
permalink: /vim/
categories: technology minimalism
date: 2020-04-22
---

Vim is an essential command-line program. Not only is it one of the most widely installed text editors for Linux distributions, but many TUI applications also use VIM-like keybindings. Learning how to "think in vim" has allowed me to edit text such as this blog post with mouse-less efficiency.

However, vim has a bit of a steep learning curve. Not as insane as emacs or dwarf fortress, mind you, but steep enough to warrant an entire Github page detailing [how to exit vim](https://github.com/hakluke/how-to-exit-vim). 

I found it incredibly useful to watch a [video course](https://courses.linuxtrainingacademy.com/course/vim-masterclass/) available through [O'Reilly](https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/vim-masterclass/9781789955194). It covers how to edit, delete, copy, and paste text in vim; how to use macros; how to use the visual mode; and how to edit multiple files in vim. In short, it's a thorough overview of the vanilla vim experience, delegating customization, and plugin usage mostly to other resources like [Modern Vim](https://pragprog.com/book/modvim/modern-vim).

It's just nice to learn the vim keybindings if you're going to live in the command line. [Cmus](https://pragprog.com/book/modvim/modern-vim), a popular TUI music player, uses vim-like keybindings, and so does [Zathura](https://pwmt.org/projects/zathura/), a keyboard-centric ebook and pdf reader.

So far, the only changes I found to be absolutely necessary for using vanilla vim is setting hard tab length as 4 spaces with `set tabstop=2` and `set shiftwidth=4`, and automatically enabling line numbering with `set nu`. Furthermore, I've set Neovim as my default version of vim through `alias vim="nvim"` in ~/.bashrc, though that is not necessary. 

Becoming adept at editing text in the command-line with vim had another advantage: it made [text-based productivity](txt) dead-simple to implement. I added `alias today="vim ~/DIRECTORY/$(date +%Y-%m-%d).md"` to ~/.bashrc so that typing "today" from anywhere in the command line brings up a markdown file with today's date and agenda.  This simple script has made it effortless to bring up a text document to plan the day's tasks and agenda and to journal my progress. 

One such file for a day may look like so: 

```
* DUE: History essay
* Woke up at 7
* Breakfast, housework, admin till 9
* Homework till 12
* ...
* ...

Dear diary, .......
```

It's one of the most effective methods I've discovered to focus on today's tasks only without being bogged down by a lengthy todo list. And it's enabled by knowing vim and basic bash scripting.  
